README.md, before:

# Introduction

This is the way you specify the env file in package.json

![specifying the .env file](images/specifying-the-env-file.png)

And this is the way to use an environment variable:

![using an environment variable](images/using-an-environment-variable.png)

An error related to Node.JS version and versions prior to 20.6.0:

![node.js version to use .env](images/nodejs-version-to-use-env-file.png)

To install NVM, **N**ode **V**ersion **M**anager  please do the following command (in Linux):

```
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.37.2/install.sh | bash
```

And then you can type **in a new terminal** the following commands to install Node.JS 21 (20.6.0+ example) and use it:

```
nvm install 21
nvm use 21
```

Teacher said that you can use multiple env files as example changing the way you specify the env file to use:

![specifying the .env file](images/specifying-the-env-file2.png)

In the versions ot the Node under 20 (19-), you need the package dotenv to read environment variables.

![dotenv package](images/dotenv-package.png)


# Slides related to the class

[slides related to the class](https://github.com/digitalinnovationone/formacao-nodejs/tree/main/09-npm-enviroment)

Commit message:

docs: repository related to this group of classes

README.md, after:

# Introduction

This is the way you specify the env file in package.json

![specifying the .env file](images/specifying-the-env-file.png)

And this is the way to use an environment variable:

![using an environment variable](images/using-an-environment-variable.png)

An error related to Node.JS version and versions prior to 20.6.0:

![node.js version to use .env](images/nodejs-version-to-use-env-file.png)

To install NVM, **N**ode **V**ersion **M**anager  please do the following command (in Linux):

```
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.37.2/install.sh | bash
```

And then you can type **in a new terminal** the following commands to install Node.JS 21 (20.6.0+ example) and use it:

```
nvm install 21
nvm use 21
```

Teacher said that you can use multiple env files as example changing the way you specify the env file to use:

![specifying the .env file](images/specifying-the-env-file2.png)

In the versions ot the Node under 20 (19-), you need the package dotenv to read environment variables.

![dotenv package](images/dotenv-package.png)


# Slides related to this group of classes

[slides related to this group of classes](https://hermes.dio.me/files/assets/993e0549-2af5-4d0b-9fd6-a4ed69f4dfa5.pptx)


# Repository related to this group of classes

[repository related to this group of classes](https://github.com/digitalinnovationone/formacao-nodejs/tree/main/09-npm-enviroment)
